What most clustering algorithms try
to do is to assign the objects into
clusters that are similar to the other
objects in the same cluster.
And the way the algorithms typically do
this is using the concept of distance.
As we go through these lessons,
think of the term distance as a way
to quantify or measure similarity.
The clustering algorithms try to create
segments so that the objects within
each segment are as similar or
close to each other as possible.
At the same time, they make it so the
segments themselves are as dissimilar,
or far away,
from each other as possible.
So the best cluster solutions involve
clusters that have the tightest
individual cluster cohesion, and the
greatest distinct cluster separation.